---
layout: post
title: "Colonial Invasion and English as a Global Language"
date: 2016-12-16
tag: short essay
---

The research of Crystal (2003) has indicated English has been regarded as the global language in the twenty-first century as it obtains a prominent status in multiple territories including becoming the priority when learning a foreign language as well as being the predominant or official language of seventy-five nations. Referring to this worldwide phenomenon, the majority of the investigations concentrate on the developing process of it and how to sustain the status of English. Therefore, this essay, in order to evaluate the social factors which are the significant aspects of transforming English into the global language, will delve into how the colonial invasion and how the power of
English speaking countries contribute to the dissemination and maintenance of this event respectively.

The primary reason why English has spread universally recently is the imperialist aggression which expands the power of British. In this respect, Black (2012) claims that British, adequately developed as the domestic and regional commerce might be, lacked markets for substantially increased production after the industrial revolution. Therefore, to address the requirements of markets and accumulate the capital assets, the British Empire annexed approximate ten million square miles and four hundred million people between toppling Napoleon (1815) and the first world war (1914) (Jenkins, 2009). According to the study of Phillipson (1992), British implements the Cultural Imperialism consist of establishing schools and missionising to anglicise those territories which made English extended globally.

Accordingly, there are various consequences from it which represent the
expansion of English including pidgin and creoles, Englishes and words
borrowing. The pidgin and creole are the initial phenomena when examining the
colonial invasion of Britain. Wardhaugh (2006) declares that a pidgin appears to
satisfy restrained communication needs between people possessing the different
language due to the European expansion into the third world and the creole
arises from the process that the offspring of pidgin speakers use it as the
mother tongue. Gradually, the creole will become a distinct language which leads
to the world Englishes. For example, the English used in Singapore is
acknowledged as Singlish which is incomprehensible to native speakers (Nunan,
2013). Furthermore, the words borrowing is another result as Bragg (2003)
demonstrated that Russian and Japan had appropriated considerable words from
English as the following:

*Russian: 'spiker' (speaker), 'kemping' (camping), 'khobbi' (hobby).*

*Japan: 'basukettobo-ru' (basketball), 'rajio' (radio), 'kissu' (kiss).*

Additionally, the power of the English-speaking countries is an essential
element of maintaining the global status of English as Rubdy and Saraceni (2006)
demonstrated that the strength of those who use the language is closed related
to weather it can become an international language. In this regard, the economy
is a primary factor as the English-speaking nations account for over one-third
of the global GDP (gross domestic product) and the United States is the most
productive country in the world (Crystal, 2003). The academic rank is also a
principal part because there are various staggering statistics which suggest
that ninety-five percent scholarly articles are written in English and
eighty-six percent scholarly journals are published in English (Jenkins, 2009).
Moreover, consulting the QS World University Rankings (2016), almost seventy
universities of the top one hundred ones which represent the high educational
level are located in the English-speaking countries. Consequently, individuals
are likely to learn English to integrate into the world market as well as gain
better education.

As a result, there exist two significant events which show the continuance of
the English as the global language. Firstly, with the steadily increasing figure
of the English speakers has reached one and a half billion, approximate one
forth people can communicate in English which contribute to the reinforce of the
leading role of it (Crystal, 2003). However, the quantity of English native
speakers is extremely less than that of Chinese which estimated as eight hundred
and forty-five million. The Chinese fails to become the global language is
because there are sorely one hundred and seventy-eight million people use
Chinese as a second language which account for twenty percent of those who
obtain the Chinese (Phillipson, 1992). Therefore, the reason why English
achieved it is the people were influenced to learn it by the native speakers as
Kachru (1992) illustrated that there are more people studying English as a
second language than those speak it as a mother tongue. Actually, the high
quantity and the constantly increasing number of the English speakers lead to
the maintenance of the globalised process.

In conclusion, the colonial aggression and the strength of those who speak
English are the chief causes of mandating the English as a global language.
These social factors promote the speed of spreading the English and keep the
international status of it continuously. Thus, English will still be the global
language for a long time and countries will encourage people to learn it in
order to facilitate the development of civilisation including boosting the
economy and enhancing the academic level.

**Reference list:**

Black, J. (2012). *A history of the British Isles.* 3rd ed. Houndmills, Palgrave
Macmillan.

Bragg, M. (2003). *The adventure of English.* 1st ed. London, Hodder &
Stoughton.

Crystal, D. (2003). *English as a global language.* 2nd ed. Cambridge, Cambridge
University Press.

Jenkins, J. (2009). *World Englishes*. 1st ed. London, Routledge.

Kachru, B. (1992) Teaching world Englishes. In: Kachru, B. (ed.) *The Other
Tongue: English across Cultures.* 2nd edition. Urbana, University of Illinois
Press.

Nunan, D. (2013). *What is this thing called language?* 2nd ed. New York,
Palgrave Macmillan.

Phillipson, R. (1992). *Linguistic imperialism.* 1st ed. Oxford, Oxford
University Press.

QS World University Rankings. (2016). *QS World University Rankings 2016.*
[online] Available from:
[http://www.topuniversities.com/university-rankings/world-university-rankings/2016](http://www.topuniversities.com/university-rankings/world-university-rankings/2016%20)
[Accessed 15 December 2016].

Rudby, R. & Saraceni, M. (2006). *English in the world.* 1st ed. London,
Continuum.

Wardhaugh, R. (2006). *An introduction to sociolinguistics*. 5th ed. Oxford,
Blackwell.
