---
layout: post
title: "CDA and Vice-Presidential Debate of 2012"
date: 2017-12-01
tag: short essay
---

**Introduction**

Critical Discourse Analysis (CDA), concentrating on the measures of discourse
reproducing imparity and inequality ideologically, is a comparatively
socio-political concept majorly employed to analyse the rhetoric (Fairclough,
2013). In the political discipline, CDA is utilised frequently due to the
enormous requirement on investigating the ulterior motives behind politicians’
utterances (Fairclough, *ibid*). This coursework, therefore, will examine an
excerpt of the Vice-Presidential Debate of 2012 with applying the analytical
tools of CDA including naming and describing as well as equating and
contrasting.

**Martha Raddatz**

As the moderator of this debate, Raddatz harboured a relatively neutral attitude
which led her primarily focus on the merits and drawbacks of the present
policies on behalf of the general public. In this respect, she exploited a
hidden collectivism value that emphasise the importance of the state security
and harmony, therefore, she frequently mentioned the damage and harm caused by
the policies.

The principal tactics she utilised was equating and contrasting which help her
establish a personal image of showing solicitude for the populace. In this
connection, she benefited from that the debaters are challenging to sidestep her
questions and that the political preference is avoided.

>   **Discourse A: “On a rather somber note, one month ago tonight, on the
>   anniversary of 9/11, Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other brave
>   Americans were killed in a terrorist attack in Benghazi.”**

Raddatz referred to “brave Americans” in Discourse A to equating her with the
common Americans which evoked people’s interests on the questions she asked.

>   **Discourse B: “I just want to you about right in the middle of the crisis.
>   Governor Romney, and you're talking about this again tonight, talked about
>   the weakness; talked about apologies from the Obama administration. Was that
>   really appropriate right in the middle of the crisis?”**

In Discourse B, similarly, she introduced a question from the perspective of the
populace and avoided the political preference through asking a comparatively
neutral question which hides her personal intention of enquiring sharply.

Furthermore, Raddatz also utilise the naming and describing which deliberately
intensify the events’ extent of severity by mentioning the other horrible
matters. From the perspective of the ideology, it is conducive to her enquiry
about the facts because these incidents, after being connected with the schemas
of negative experience, seem to become what civilians care about.

For instance, in the Discourse A, stressing the terms “9/11” and “terrorist
attack”, Raddatz inspired civilians’ retrospection on the September 11 attacks,
which was recognised by Schmidt (2002) as the source of escalating paranoia and
anxiety regarding future terrorist attacks, to exaggerate the terrible
consequence of the event in Benghazi.

**Joe Biden**

The Vice President Joe Biden, represented the governing party which guided him
to support and defend the current policies, used the ideology regarded as The
Political by Eduard Spranger (1914, cited in Stewart, 1998) which emphasises the
credibility of authority and the significance of power.

In the debate, Biden frequently applied the naming and describing to achieve his
intention. The using of “president”, compared with Ryan’s using “Obama”, is to
present the authoritativeness of the governing group because the schema of
president is a giant and noble person.

>   **Discourse C: Biden: “When you're looking at a president, Martha, it seems
>   to me that you should take a look at his most important responsibility.
>   That's caring for the national security of the country. And the best way to
>   do that is take a look at how he's handled the issues of the day.”**

>   **Discourse D: Biden: “That's why there's also an investigation headed by
>   Tom Pickering, a leading diplomat from the Reagan years, who is doing an
>   investigation as to whether or not there are any lapses, what the lapses
>   were, so that they will never happen again.”**

In Discourse C, the connection between the position of a president and the
important affairs of state was established to construct the positive image.
Moreover, the emphasis on the excellent background of Tom Pickering in Discourse
D is conducive to leading the common people to trust the investigating result as
well. This kind of ideology was employed to diminish the doubts to the ruling
party.

In the same respect, the credibility of the governmental agencies was
strengthened to obtain his goals as well. Biden subtly shirked the
responsibility of the negative consequences of events with the help of
transferring the decision-making role to the entire government agencies.

>   **Discourse E: “Because that was exactly what we were told by the
>   intelligence community. The intelligence community told us that. As they
>   learned more facts about exactly what happened, they changed their
>   assessment.”**

In Discourse E, Biden mentioned the “intelligence community” repeatedly to guide
the people to rely on the finding from the government, meanwhile, partially
shift the reproaches on the cause of decisions to an undetectable agency. The
value of believing the authority was exploited to fulfil Biden’s intentions
which is to relax the query to the governing party.

Additionally, the equating and contrasting have been employed as well. In order
to present it, the Keyword function in the linguistic software Antconc was used
to analyse the usage of terms. Chart A is the keywords of Biden which
illustrates that there are specific stresses of “Governor Romney”, who was
contrasted with the “president”, which intended to raise the insignificance of
the individual.

![](/8609f3012639f5575bd965fcb213b00a.png)

**Chart A**

>   **Discourse F: “Prior to the election, prior to the -- him being sworn in,
>   Governor Romney was asked the question about how he would proceed. He said,
>   "I wouldn't move heaven and earth to get bin Laden." He didn't understand it
>   was more than about taking a murderer off the battlefield. It was about
>   restoring America's heart and letting terrorists around the world know, if
>   you do harm to America, we will track you to the gates of hell if need
>   be.”**

In Discourse F, the similar comparison was conducted by Biden to reveal Romney’s
lack of an overall view. Furthermore, He promoted the ruling party’s affinity
with the common by equating the benefits of the president with that of the
Americans such as committing to the populace and represented the interests of
them.

**Paul Ryan**

As the congressman, Paul Ryan tended to pick flaws on the president’s
countermeasures to the social events because his political party desires to
discover the incorrectness of the governing party. He exploited the democracy
and individualism ideology which he mentioned as “stand up for peace, for
democracy, for individual rights.” It is helpful for him to arouse civilians’
craving and curiosity to the truth of the terrible affairs. Probably, Ryan also
exploit the cynicism, pessimism and conspiracy theories to inspire individuals’
opposition to the ruling party.

Firstly, in his debate, the utilisation of naming and describing was abundant
which can be recognised in the following instances.

>   **Discourse G: “It took the president two weeks to acknowledge that this was
>   a terrorist attack. He went to the U.N. and in his speech at the U.N. he
>   said six times -- he talked about the YouTube video.”**

In Discourse G, the third personal pronouns “he” and “his” were employed to
distinguish the schema of “Obama” from that of “president” which illustrates the
unreliability of the Obama who was regarded as an individual.

>   **Discourse H: Ryan: “With respect to Iraq, we had the same position before
>   the withdrawal, which was we agreed with the Obama administration. Let's
>   have a status of forces agreement to make sure that we secure our gains. The
>   vice president was put in charge of those negotiations by President Obama
>   and they failed to get the agreement.”**

In that respect, in Discourse H, Ryan attempted to refer to the individual such
as “Obama administration” and “President Obama” to depress the reliability of
authority which is extraordinarily different from what Biden have done. In order
to present this controversy, the Antconc was used again to analyse these two
different naming measures. Compared with Chart A, Chart B is the keywords of
Ryan which indicates that the term “Obama” is a specific one in the discourse.

![](/91cf55026beef5956672e5f7e54c1bc7.png)

**Chart B**

This appropriate rhetoric decreased the credible image of the president which
motivates the populace to explore the fact and protect their own rights. The
populace who guided by the individualism and even cynicism will reconsider the
validity of the investigating result.

>   **Discourse I: “We should have spoken out right away when the green
>   revolution was up and starting; when the mullahs in Iran were attacking
>   their people. We should not have called Bashar Assad a reformer when he was
>   turning his Russian-provided guns on his own people. We should always stand
>   up for peace, for democracy, for individual rights.”**

The equating and contrasting have been used by Ryan. As Discourse I shows, Ryan
employed the subjunctive mood to presuppose, through using the schemas of the
status quo, that the current blemishes were all conducted by the governing
party. The incorrectness of president implied in that utterance composes a
cryptic contrast between the president and the prospective policies which will
be implemented by the legislative assembly.

**Conclusion**

In summary, this essay has investigated the manipulated impression, which the
three persons in the debate desire to construct, through examining the
discourses using the analytical tools including naming and describing as well as
equating and contrasting. During this process, the hidden ideology and power
issues which were exploited to influence public opinion were explored as well.

**Reference List**

Fairclough, N. (2013). *Critical Discourse Analysis : The Critical Study Of
Language*. London [u.a.]: Routledge.

Schmidt, B. (2002). *Anxiety After 9/11*. [online] Psychology Today. Available
at: https://www.psychologytoday.com/articles/200201/anxiety-after-911 [Accessed
30 Nov. 2017].

Spranger, E. (1914). cited in Stewart, D. (1998). *Spranger's dimensions of
value*. [online] Hfr.org.uk. Available at:
http://www.hfr.org.uk/figures/spranger.htm [Accessed 1 Dec. 2017].

**Appendix**

RADDATZ:

I would like to begin with Libya. On a rather somber note, one month ago
tonight, on the anniversary of 9/11, Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other
brave Americans were killed in a terrorist attack in Benghazi. The State
Department has now made clear, there were no protesters there.

RADDATZ: it was a pre-planned assault by heavily armed men. Wasn't this a
massive intelligence failure, Vice President Biden?

BIDEN: What is was, it was a tragedy, Martha. It -- Chris Stevens was one of our
best. We lost three other brave Americans.

I can make absolutely two commitments to you and all the American people
tonight. One, we will find and bring to justice the men who did this. And
secondly, we will get to the bottom of it, and whatever -- wherever the facts
lead us, wherever they lead us, we will make clear to the American public,
because whatever mistakes were made will not be made again.

When you're looking at a president, Martha, it seems to me that you should take
a look at his most important responsibility. That's caring for the national
security of the country. And the best way to do that is take a look at how he's
handled the issues of the day.

On Iraq, the president said he would end the war. Governor Romney said that was
a tragic mistake, we should have left 30,000 -- he ended it. Governor Romney
said that was a tragic mistake, we should have left 30,000 troops there.

With regard to Afghanistan, he said he will end the war in 2014. Governor Romney
said we should not set a date, number one. And number two, with regard to 2014,
it depends.

When it came to Osama bin Laden, the president the first day in office, I was
sitting with him in the Oval Office, he called in the CIA and signed an order
saying, "My highest priority is to get bin Laden."

Prior to the election, prior to the -- him being sworn in, Governor Romney was
asked the question about how he would proceed. He said, "I wouldn't move heaven
and earth to get bin Laden." He didn't understand it was more than about taking
a murderer off the battlefield. It was about restoring America's heart and
letting terrorists around the world know, if you do harm to America, we will
track you to the gates of hell if need be.

And lastly, the president of the United States has -- has led with a steady hand
and clear vision. Governor Romney, the opposite. The last thing we need now is
another war.

RADDATZ: Congressman Ryan?

RYAN: We mourn the loss of these four Americans who were murdered.

RYAN: When you take a look at what has happened just in the last few weeks, they
sent the U.N. ambassador out to say that this was because of a protest and a
YouTube video. It took the president two weeks to acknowledge that this was a
terrorist attack.

He went to the U.N. and in his speech at the U.N. he said six times -- he talked
about the YouTube video.

Look, if we're hit by terrorists we're going to call it for what it is, a
terrorist attack. Our ambassador in Paris has a Marine detachment guarding him.
Shouldn't we have a Marine detachment guarding our ambassador in Benghazi, a
place where we knew that there was an Al Qaida cell with arms?

This is becoming more troubling by the day. They first blamed the YouTube video.
Now they're trying to blame the Romney-Ryan ticket for making this an issue.

With respect to Iraq, we had the same position before the withdrawal, which was
we agreed with the Obama administration. Let's have a status of forces agreement
to make sure that we secure our gains. The vice president was put in charge of
those negotiations by President Obama and they failed to get the agreement. We
don't have a status of forces agreement because they failed to get one. That's
what we are talking about.

Now, when it comes to our veterans, we owe them a great debt of gratitude for
what they've done for us, including your son Beau. But we also want to make sure
that we don't lose the things we fought so hard to get.

Now, with respect to Afghanistan, the 2014 deadline, we agree with a 2014
transition. But what we also want it do is make sure that we're not projecting
weakness abroad, and that's what's happening here.

RYAN: This Benghazi issue would be a tragedy in and of itself, but
unfortunately, it's indicative of a broader problem. And that is what we are
watching on our TV screens is the unravelling of the Obama foreign policy, which
is making the (inaudible) more chaotic us less safe.

RADDATZ: I just want to you about right in the middle of the crisis. Governor
Romney, and you're talking about this again tonight, talked about the weakness;
talked about apologies from the Obama administration. Was that really
appropriate right in the middle of the crisis?

RYAN: On that same day, the Obama administration had the exact same position.
Let's recall that they disavowed their own statement that they had put out
earlier in the day in Cairo. So we had the same position, but we will -- it's
never too early to speak out for our values.

We should have spoken out right away when the green revolution was up and
starting; when the mullahs in Iran were attacking their people. We should not
have called Bashar Assad a reformer when he was turning his Russian-provided
guns on his own people. We should always stand up for peace, for democracy, for
individual rights.

And we should not be imposing these devastating defense cuts, because what that
does when we equivocate on our values, when we show that we're cutting down on
defense, it makes us more weak. It projects weakness. And when we look weak, our
adversaries are much more willing to test us. They're more brazen in their
attacks, and are allies are less willing to...

(CROSSTALK)

BIDEN: With all due respect, that's a bunch of malarkey.

RADDATZ: And why is that so?

BIDEN: Because not a single thing he said is accurate. First of all...

RADDATZ: Be specific.

BIDEN: I will be very specific. Number one, the -- this lecture on embassy
security -- the congressman here cut embassy security in his budget by \$300
million below what we asked for, number one. So much for the embassy security
piece.

Number two, Governor Romney, before he knew the facts, before he even knew that
our ambassador was killed, he was out making a political statement which was
panned by the media around the world. And this talk about this -- this weakness.
I -- I don't understand what my friend's talking about here.

We -- this is a president who's gone out and done everything he has said he was
going to do. This is a guy who's repaired our alliances so the rest of the world
follows us again. This is the guy who brought the entire world, including Russia
and China, to bring about the most devastating -- most devastating -- the most
devastating efforts on Iran to make sure that they in fact stop (inaudible).

Look, I -- I just -- I mean, these guys bet against America all the time.

RADDATZ: Can we talk -- let me go back to Libya.

BIDEN: Yeah, sure.

RADDATZ: What were you first told about the attack? Why -- why were people
talking about protests? When people in the consulate first saw armed men
attacking with guns, there were no protesters. Why did that go on (inaudible)?

BIDEN: Because that was exactly what we were told by the intelligence community.
The intelligence community told us that. As they learned more facts about
exactly what happened, they changed their assessment. That's why there's also an
investigation headed by Tom Pickering, a leading diplomat from the Reagan years,
who is doing an investigation as to whether or not there are any lapses, what
the lapses were, so that they will never happen again.

RADDATZ: And they wanted more security there.

BIDEN: Well, we weren't told they wanted more security there. We did not know
they wanted more security again. And by the way, at the time we were told
exactly -- we said exactly what the intelligence community told us that they
knew. That was the assessment. And as the intelligence community changed their
view, we made it clear they changed their view.

That's why I said we will get to the bottom of this. You know, usually when
there's a crisis, we pull together. We pull together as a nation. But as I said,
even before we knew what happened to the ambassador, the governor was holding a
press conference -- was holding a press conference. That's not presidential
leadership.
