---
layout: post
title: "A Review of In their Own Voices: Development of English as a Gender-neutral Language-Does Learning English Promote Gender Equity among Asian International Students?"
date: 2017-12-21
tag: short essay
---

**Introduction**

The article, *In their Own Voices: Development of English as a Gender-neutral
Language: Does Learning English Promote Gender Equity among Asian International
Students?* (Brutt-Griffler & Kim, 2017), is selected to be investigated in this
commentary. In the similar discipline, multiple inquiries were administered to
indicate that English is macroscopically utilised as a political, cultural and
religious neutral language by multitudinous governments as exhibited in the
textbook. Differently, the chosen article microcosmically researches the
influence on the gender-equity enrichment by learning English per se. In this
respect, due to the scarcity and creativity of it, this article is regarded to
be estimable and valuable; however, there are still various deficiencies
illustrated in it which should have been withdrawn in a comparatively ideal
research. Moreover, the structure of the analysis, which substantially focuses
on the research design and the modes of observation concentrating on managing
the sample and data, is the essential dimension of a study (Babbie, 2014). This
essay, therefore, will probe the manifested problems in the research design,
sampling and data analysis connecting the textbook, with proposing numerous
suggestions towards them.

**Research Design**

The theoretical orientation of this article, which is considered to be
disharmonious to the research aim, will be commented. A term *macroacquisition*,
which implies that the learners will actively shape the features of a certain
language variety, is elaborated in the article. Similarly, the textbook also
explains that the English varieties can reveal the cultural circumstances of
their speakers in Chapter Two. For example, the *re-metaphorisation*, introduced
in page 38, occurs when the non-native speakers practice various concepts to
express their idiomatic definitions which can expand the communicative
competence of English. Nevertheless, the exploitations of the macroacquisition
do not match the intention of the article which is to explore whether studying
English will alter the participants’ views but not the English learners will
reconstruct the language. Additionally, without performing in the other
segments, that term is operated in the conclusion of the paper to imply that
Asian females implement their positive remodelling of English as a
gender-neutral language to aspire after the new personalities. However, the
process of macroacquisition already generalises beyond the findings of this
article; consequently, it cannot be conjectured that the samples consciously
adopt this method in pursuing their reform. For the theory utilised in detecting
the English as gender-neutral language, multiple other approaches can be
employed such as that the textbook indicates that English disposes of
considerable gender-based syntactic distinctions, which signify English is
displaying the gender-equal language, remaining in various Germanic languages.

Furthermore, in an investigation, the concern of the time dimension does
contribute to a valid designation of the model; whereas distinct misconceptions
will be generated due to the deficiency of it (Guardiola, González-Gómez, &
García-Rubio, 2008). As the researcher solely interviewed each participant twice
casually and no longitudinal outcome was solicited, it is assumed that this
article is a cross-sectional study. Due to the insufficient capacity of the
cross-sectional survey in comprehending the trend and continuous behaviour
according to Babbie (2014), it is inapplicable to promote it to examine whether
English studying advances gender-neutral awareness. In this connection, a
longitudinal study is appealed to analyse the transformation of the
gender-equity demonstration of participants compared with the alteration of
their English education stages which can intimate the correlation between these
two variables.

**Sampling**

The most significant problem is the representativeness of the sample. In this
investigation, some Asian international students at the US colleges were
selected to confirm the research aim. As the gender-neutral perception is a
social psychological concept and will be composed by the culture, the sample is
supposed to be non-representative and extensively influenced by the third
variables leading to a spurious correlation (Myers, 2008). For instance, their
attitudes towards gender-equity will probably be affected by the shared social
attitude because the World Economic Forum's Gender Gap Index ranked US 49th out
of 144 countries for gender equality whereas China, Japan and Korea ranked
100th, 114th, and 118th respectively (World Economic Forum, 2017). Therefore, it
is more appropriate to select more inclusive sample especially the language
learners in their homelands which is conducive to bypassing the influence of the
third variables.

Additionally, with emphasising the significance of female students, the article
excessively concentrates on the unique reflections of women community. The
concept of the speech community, which represent the fluid and transient
communicative relations, is explained in the textbook as well. However,
utilising this sampling strategy can solely obtain the particular conclusions
for Asian female students which produce multiple discrepancies between those
results and the testification of English emerging as a gender-neutral language.
Meanwhile, the representativeness of that sample decreases because the authors
declare that the feminine speech community is unique which determines that it
cannot denote the prevailing perspective of Asian individuals. Even in the
article, the authors also do not furnish the logical process of generalisation
from the female consequences to the generic ones. Supposedly, it will be more
advantageous if adopting a more representative sample through regarding the sex
distribution, ethnicity, cultivation and income of the respondents.

**Data Analysis**

Concerning the data analysis, diminishing the presence of construct-irrelevant
variance, a primary portion of construct validation considering the deviation of
other distinct segments and the presentation of untrustworthy or inexact
variation, will substantially enhance the credibility of the research (Hubley &
Zumbo, 2011). Therefore, this process is expected principally for eliminating
the impacts of foreseeable third variables exhibited in the sampling strategy
before. The most interesting element is that the authors desire to associate the
progression of gender-equity with English training; however, their preceding
investigation, which was cited in the article as well, has already demonstrated
that this ascension is a consequence of different social ideologies
(Brutt-Griffler & Kim, 2016). In the authors’ previous research, they
illustrated that Asian female international students harbour more inclination
towards envisioning themselves to be gender equitable due to the unbalanced
gender beliefs of their original countries (Brutt-Griffler & Kim, 2016).

Furthermore, it is significant to examine whether the conclusions are logically
consistent with the data presented (Babbie, 2014). The article reasonably
manages the text analysis for the interview transcription; nevertheless, the
results seem incongruous with the data. Contrasted with only two of them record
that articulating English is contributory for the students to remove the
stereotype inculcated by their mother tongue, the majority of the utterances
indicate that their perception reconstructions are because of the different
social contexts from their L1 cultures. However, the authors interpret the
promotion of gender-equity as the outcome of language learning without
mentioning the other unrelated constituents. Similarly, male students’ aversions
to learning English, which can individually display that they are reluctant to
desert their primitive female-discriminated society to obtain profits, are
overinterpreted as the outcome of the gender-neutral aspects in English per se.
In terms of these excessive analysis, on page 185, the textbook also mentions
that self-perceived proficiency, exposure to the language, the evaluations of
English varieties and the gender all impact the attitudes towards English. In
this respect, it is expected that the authors can manifest the results logically
and appropriately.

Moreover, the intention of this research is to correlate the gender-neutral
perspective with English learning; hence it should have analysed both English
studiers and non-English ones, nevertheless, only the emic data from the
language learners’ opinions are acquired and examined. The more proper measure
of conducting it is mix method operating T-Test, typically implemented to two
non-overlapping statistical units, to analyse if there is significant difference
in the gender-equity attitudes between English learners and non-English ones,
reporting Cohen’s d, Glass’s △, or Hedge’s g according to the collected data
pattern (Ellis, 2010).

Additionally, the presentation of data is unsuitable due to the intentional
attempt of attaining the anticipated results. In the article, the authors desire
to employ the similarities and distinctions upon the respondents’ gender
socialisation and their English learning motivations. However, with reference to
the commentary before, they solely proclaim the commonalities of females’
expansion of gender-equity and males’ reluctance to acquiring English without
illustrating the other deviant cases. In the part of examining the students’
gender socialisation, only the data from female respondents are reported. It is
restricted in researching whether the male students’ attitudes towards different
genders switches which substantially represents the real functions of English
education. Likewise, only male data are presented in the part of exploring the
motivation toward learning English with which should be dealt as well.

**Conclusion**

In summary, this essay has elucidated the research design, sampling and data
analysis of the article with concerning the textbook. The theoretical
orientation and time dimension of the research, furthermore, the
representativeness of the sample have been investigated in the research design
part and sampling part respectively. Additionally, the effect of irrelevant
variables, the consistency of the data and conclusions, the data analysis method
and the report of data were observed in the data analysis aspect. In these
connections, multiple more appropriate methodologies were also proposed in the
annotation. This commentary will avail the researchers themselves of discovering
the improper facets in the inquiry; therefore, in the prospective investigation,
a more systematic research, with employing more suitable techniques, may be
administered with recognising these factors.

**Reference List**

>   Babbie, E. R. (2014). *The practice of social research*: Boston, MA: Cengage
>   Learning., Fourteenth edition.

>   Brutt-Griffler, J., & Kim, S. (2016). Closing the gender gap: The role of
>   English. In M.-L. Pitzl & R. Osimk-Teasdale (Eds.), *English as a Lingua
>   Franca: Perspectives and Prospects* (pp. 245–257). Berlin: De Gruyter
>   Mouton.

>   Brutt-Griffler, J., & Kim, S. (2017). In their own voices: Development of
>   English as a gender-neutral language: Does learning English promote gender
>   equity among Asian international students? *English Today*, 1-8.
>   doi:10.1017/S0266078417000372

>   Ellis, P. D. (2010). *The essential guide to effect sizes: statistical
>   power, meta-analysis, and the interpretation of research results*:
>   Cambridge; New York: Cambridge University Press, 2010.

>   Guardiola, J., González-Gómez, F., & García-Rubio, M. A. (2008). Is the time
>   dimension really important in research into contracting out? St. Louis:
>   Federal Reserve Bank of St Louis.

>   Hubley, A. M., & Zumbo, B. D. (2011). Validity and the Consequences of Test
>   Interpretation and Use. *Social Indicators Research, 103*(2), 219-230.
>   doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11205-011-9843-4

>   Myers, D. (2008). *Social psychology*. Boston: McGraw-Hill.

>   World Economic Forum. (2017). *Global Gender Gap report*. Switzerland.
