---
layout: post
title: "The Yellow Wallpaper and feminist theory"
date: 2017-12-27
tag: short essay
---

**Introduction**

The Yellow Wallpaper, a novella presented in the first person by American writer
Charlotte Perkins Gilman (1892), is recognised as a tour de force of American
feminist literature. The novel per se can be analysed elaboratively as it
employs considerable intricate literature techniques; nevertheless, it is more
worthwhile detecting the extent of The Yellow Wallpaper complementing feminist
theory because it invokes numerous previously neglected issues of feminism
discipline. In this respect, with considering the historical background, it is
regarded as the symbol of the feminism transform the concentration from physical
dimensions to a comparatively comprehensive one including physical and mental
aspects. Additionally, in the novel, there are multiple presentations of the
women cultivated in the patriarchal society will subjectively aggravate the
repression of the males which is ignored before. Furthermore, the performances
of identity in The Yellow Wallpaper are noticed as the introduction of
deconstruction towards the feminism. This essay, therefore, will analyse its
diverse complementarities of feminist theory including the facets presented
above with reference to different works of feminist theory.

**Expanding the Scope of Feminist Theory**

The feminism initially substantially focuses on the unequal social right and the
males’ physical oppression to women. For example, Wollstonecraft (1792)
indicated that the females, who are not inherently inferior, were not receive
the appropriate education which could liberate them. Moreover, in the American
Woman’s Home originally published in 1869, Beecher and Stowe (2002) indicated
that, due to the cultural factors, the expectations upon women were that they
had to immerse in the domestic life and express their obedience. In this regard,
despite it delineates the emancipation from the exasperating claustrophobia of
patriarchy and the female demand for engaging in the social activities, The
Yellow Wallpaper particularly centralises the psychological manifestation of the
consequences of the unneutral status which expanded the scope of feminist
theory.

One of the expressions in that field is the psychological disease and medical
treatment depicted. In the novel, the narrator was believed to suffer from a
malady ‘hysteria’ which stereotypically considered to be because the
comprehensive education exceedingly irritates individuals’ brains and to be
contracted more by women (Cutter, 2001). Therefore, John, a symbol of the
rational male specialists, in order to treat his wife, militaristically enforce
the narrator to cease to progress the fancies. Unlike the other feminism
literatures which emphasise the domestic violence and women’s subordinate
status, The Yellow Wallpaper utilises the authoritative psychiatrist’ treating
weak female via imprisonment as the representation of inculcating the value of
accepting the expected social roles in women. It can result in the harmful
consequence, illustrated by the eventual madness of the woman, as grievous as
that caused by the physical repression.

The other aspect of it is the writing presents to be the symbol of both the job
and the creative mental activity. In that period, women’s right of writing was
absence and the peculiarity of female writing was regarded as nonmainstream
which probably leads Gilman to utilise it as the signal of revolt and liberation
(Showalter, 1979). For it being a kind of career, The Yellow Wallpaper suggests
the appeal for women pursuing economic independence which confirms the feminist
trend in that time (Gilman, 1970). In terms of it being the symbol of creative
psychological activity, it portraits writing as a ‘congenial work, with
excitement and change’ which serves the function of liberating the females such
as Quawas (2006) declared that writing, as one of the deficient rights of women,
is an emblem of their existence. In the novel, the narrator claims that ‘I
haven't felt like writing before, since that first day’ which exhibits her
resorting to writing as a measure of relieving herself. Meanwhile, her husband’s
discouragement of her writing alludes the mental oppression upon women from the
phallocentric cultural ideology. In this respect, Gilman successfully amplified
the focus of feminist theory to a wider range including physical and
psychological dimensions.

**Broaching the Females’ Participation in Patriarchal oppression**

The conventional presuppositions of genders, considered to be condemned by the
feminists, which manifest the dominance of male images and the subordinate form
of women reveal a certain essentialism idea of the inherent characteristics of
the different genders. From that perspective, the liberation of women requires
depending on enhancing males’ consideration of emancipation which presented in
The Yellow Wallpaper as the narrator’s only approach to prevail her husband is
to abandon her reason. However, apart from expressing the situation of that
period, Gilman prospectively suggested the other measure of striving for
equality is refuting women subjectively accepting the stereotype between
different genders. Similarly, according to the later feminists like Beauvoir
(1980), the civilisation and subtle influence via social environment, rather
than biological or psychological differences per se, determine the performances
of female characters. In this connection, the novel illustrated that women
developed in the patrilineal society will, on their own initiative, intensify
the oppression from the males.

The portrait of John’s sister Jennie is a representation of the females serves
as the accomplices in the repression of patriarchy. In the text, the description
as “I must not let her find me writing…I verily believe she thinks it is the
writing which made me sick!” shown Jennie possesses the similar consideration as
that of John which symbolises that the females have been inculcated with the
paternal thought. Additionally, in “I heard him ask Jennie a lot of professional
questions about me. She had a very good report to give”, that the female
individual reports to the man also alludes subconsciously regarding herself as
the subordinate of male. In this respect, The Yellow Wallpaper illustrates a
general condition that the female perceived stereotypically on themselves,
following the opinions from men, which has hindered the progress of feminism.

Furthermore, the narrator herself appears as one exemplification due to her
collusion of the imprisonment. In the text, she refers that John “is very
careful and loving, and hardly lets me stir without special direction” and she
“would not be so silly as to make him uncomfortable just for a whim”. Her own
feelings on John’s love and renouncement to disturb him through discussing about
her indisposition exacerbate the gender-unneutral phenomenon. The narrator
harboured the acceptance of the subordination between the femininity and the
masculinity which guides her to fulfil the expected social image as Millett
(1970) displayed to be obedient, pretty, and virtuous. Employing these female
figures,

Gilman exhibited that the women themselves, apart from males, would attribute to
the deterioration of phallocentric repression which can be recognised as the
complement of feminist theory.

**Introducing the Deconstruction into Feminist Theory**

Numerous feminist theories in that period, from the perspective of essentialism
and constructivism, concentrated on the anatomical and biological sexual
difference with reference to the material determination of repressing females.
For instance, the inborn feature of male was considered to be powerful and
authoritative which also presented to be the notion of phallocentrism (Bennett
and Royle, 2009). In this regard, Gilman portraited the man as rational and
strong whereas the women as passive and irrational. Nevertheless, in the text,
there are still multiple aspects which can illustrate the defiance and
deconstruction of the foundation of the genders.

In The Yellow Wallpaper, the conventional female features were emplaced on the
male persons which can be the appeal of a certain androgyny. It employed males’
refusion to the irrationality as a signal of conservatism; for example, in the
description of John, the defensiveness which often regarded as the female
characteristic was displayed by John’s scoffing “openly at any talk of things
not to be felt and seen and put down in figures” (Bennett and Royle, 2009).
Additionally, Gilman utilised the extremeness of males’ reason which will be
interpreted as the emblem of superstition to undermine the morbid adoration
towards men. In this regard, the logicality and rationality of the male image
were expressed by the “intense horror of superstition” which also insinuates a
different kind of superstition as it represents the fear of the unidentified.

Furthermore, the foundation of the existent gender opposition, which is
recognised as a sort of essentialism targeted to be assaulted by the
deconstruction according to Derrida (1981), was eliminated via the portrait of
the dual personality of the narrator. From the perspective of essentialism, it
is assumed that there is an irreversibly inborn binary opposition which leads to
the entirely different traits between male and female (Irigaray, 1985).
Moreover, Aristotle’s proposal, the possible base of the western philosophy,
declaring that “it is impossible for anything at the same time to be and not to
be”, which also reveals the inherency of gender differences as well as the
irrevocable and immutable internal gynaecoid traits, was diminished in the
deconstructive interpretation of The Yellow Wallpaper (Mckeon, 1941).

In this respect, the end of the novel, regarded as a hermeneutic discovery,
illustrates the synthesis but homoiousia between the narrator and the woman
behind the wallpaper. The claim that “I've got out at last, in spite of you and
Jane” suggests both the total assimilation of the female hidden in the wallpaper
and the victory over patriarchy oppression by the narrator per se. Additionally,
tracing back to the previous plot, Gilman utilises prolepsis to covertly combine
the protagonist, which is the narrator, and the other woman emerging as the
woman behind the wallpaper which has subverted the Aristotle’s proposal. In this
regard, the double and dual personality of the biologically same woman, via
querying the credibility of the identical stereotypical female image,
successfully deconstructs the inherency of the female traits, or more generally,
the essentialism of the inborn gender differences.

**Conclusion**

This essay, having concentrated on the analysis of text and plot, has examined
the extent of The Yellow Wallpaper complementing the feminist theory in three
different aspects. Firstly, it is considered that this novel expanded the scope
of feminism from solely physical concern to a more comprehensive one.
Furthermore, the novel evokes the attention to the female subjective
participation of patriarchy repression, through investigating the role of Jennie
and the narrator herself, which has been neglected previously. Additionally, the
deconstructionism, which emphasises the reformation of the foundation of sex
differences, was prospectively introduced in the feminist theory through
transferring the conventional female characteristics into male individual and
expressing the unreliability of the assurance about the exclusive female trait.
In these respects, the later feminist theories especially which were cited in
the essay corroborate these supplementation and anticipations by Gilman.
Nevertheless, resisted by the word limit, this essay is deficient in providing
the detailed analysing texts to elaborate on and support the ideas which perhaps
reduces the credibility of this work. In the forthcoming days, more complete
examinations are expected in order to more precisely discover the correlation
between The Yellow Wallpaper and the feminist theory with reference to the
intricate description of the content.

**Reference List**

Beauvoir, S. d. (1980) *The second sex*. New York: Vintage.

Beecher, C. E. and Stowe, H. B. (2002) *The American woman's home*. Athena
Press.

Bennett, A. and Royle, N. (2009) *An introduction to literature, criticism and
theory*. Harlow : Longman, 2009.

4th ed.

Cutter, M. J. (2001) 'The Writer as Doctor: New Models of Medical Discourse in
Charlotte Perkins Gilman's Later Fiction', *Literature and Medicine*, 20(2), pp.
151-182.

Derrida, J. (1981) *Positions*. Translated by Bass, A. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.

Gilman, C. P. (1892) 'The Yellow Wall-paper. A Story', *The New England
Magazine*, 11(5).

Gilman, C. P. (1970) *Women and economics*. Source Book Press.

Irigaray, L. (1985) *This Sex Which Is Not One*. Cornell University Press.

Mckeon, R. P. (ed.) (1941) *The Basic Works of Aristotle*. New York: Random
House.

Millett, K. (1970) *Sexual Politics*. Doubleday and Co.

Quawas, R. (2006) 'A New Woman's Journey into Insanity: Descent and Return in
The Yellow Wallpaper'. Taylor & Francis Ltd, pp. 35-53. Available at:
<http://ez.xjtlu.edu.cn/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=hlh&AN=21532183&site=eds-live&scope=site>.

Showalter, E. (1979) 'Toward a Feminist Poetics', in *Women’s Writing and
Writing About Women*. London: Croom Helm.

Wollstonecraft, M. (1792) *A Vindication of the Rights of Woman with Strictures
on Political and Moral Subjects*. London: J. Johnson.
