---
layout: post
title: "Wuthering Height in the Context"
date: 2018-06-03
tag: short essay
---

**Introduction**

Throughout the Industrial Revolution, the manual labour mode of production on
manufacturing and agriculture has been transforming into a mechanised pattern
(Stearns, 2012). The capitalist classes, who acquire considerable wealth
compared with the lower poor class, emerges from this trend (Stearns, 2012).
With relatively new political opinions and significant fortune, they desire to
obtain the parallel social status with the aristocrats, which produces massive
social divisions and turbulence in this period (Harvie et al., 2000). Along with
the social status, they also wish to enjoy the similar aristocratic education,
land right, religious discourse rights (Thompson, 2013). Wuthering Height
(Brontë, 2007), published in 1847, is interpreted as a work of fiction filled
with elements of Industrial Revolution (Kettle, 2016). Therefore, this essay
will analyse the connections between this novel and the contemporary social
situation including the portrait of social division, political context, and
religious alteration.

**Social Division**

The Industrial Revolution benefit numerous individuals to attain abundant
material resources to become the capitalist class which is substantially
symbolised in Wuthering Height (Stearns, 2012). In that period, compared with
the aristocrats and the capitalists, the pauper had experienced a perishing
living condition due to the significant polarization of the rich and the poor
(Harvie et al., 2000). For example, Heathcliff, who originally belongs to the
low class, was found in a Liverpool slum with dirty exterior and shabby
clothing. On the contrary, Edgar and his sister signifying the nobles' children
live in a marvellous grange with "crimson-covered chairs and tables, and a pure
white ceiling bordered by gold, a shower of glass-drops hanging in silver chains
from the centre, and shimmering with little soft tapers" (pp.74). Furthermore,
Edgar Linton possesses a pretty face, light hair, fair skin, and decent
behaviours which appear to be the features of the rich and the noble. The
comparison of people's attitudes towards these two different communities can be
discovered in Heathcliff and Catherine's adventure in Thrushcross Grange. In
this segment, the noble and their servants consider the protagonist as
"out-and-outer", "gipsy", "strange acquisition …in his journey to Liverpool"
(pp.76), hence send him back to Wuthering Height. However, they treat Catherine
as "Miss Earnshaw" (pp.76) and "made a distinction between her treatment and
mine[Heathcliff's]" (pp.77).

In addition, the differentiation between the lower class persons and higher
class ones is also reflected by the dissimilar language utilisations.
Schieffelin et al. (1998) demonstrated that language employment, especially of
the aristocrat-excluded and aristocrat-preferred usage, represents the certain
social status and ideology. Heathcliff is considered to be "foul-mouthed"
(pp.76) and leading the aristocrats to "notice his language" (pp.77) which
indicates his vulgar and aristocrat-excluded language application. Likewise,
Williams (2001) recorded that the Received Standard Pronunciation, learnt
principally by the higher class people, varied noticeably in the Industrial
Revolution period to satisfy the requirements for an exclusive and so-called
correct language to designate nobility. In the novel, Heathcliff "repeated over
and over again some gibberish that nobody could understand" (pp.65) which also
manifests his uneducated background and contemptible class origin. In this
respect, to undercut the higher class people's status, Heathcliff teaches
Hareton "fine words" and to "swear at" (pp.127) his father.

Moreover, English noble appreciates the unique aristocratic education which is
conducive to retaining their dignity (Silver, 2013). In Wuthering Height,
Heathcliff "had …lost the benefit of his early education ", "extinguished any
curiosity he once possessed in pursuit of knowledge", and "yielded completely"
his studies (pp.91). This scarcity of education contributes to the aristocrats'
disapproval towards Heathcliff which exhibits the importance of knowledge in the
higher social class. Also, to diminish the education background of Hareton who
harbours the bourgeois class origin, Heathcliff deliberately sabotages the
studying opportunity to depress Hareton's social status. Consequently, when
junior Catherine who received Linton's teaching discovers that Hareton is
collecting books, except her laughing at his ignorance, she "then laughed at for
trying to remove it" (pp.282). Similarly, as an approach to reconciliation,
junior Catherine help the boy become literate which presents a primary section
of being an aristocrat.

The disparity between the lower class and the higher class also exposes in
Heathcliff's other actions. For instance, Heathcliff, out of his self-abasement
and love of Catherine, imagines developing the similar outward appearance and
behaviour pattern. After Catherine living in Thrushcross Grange, Heathcliff
"might well skulk behind the settle, on beholding such a bright, graceful damsel
enter the house, instead of a rough-headed counterpart of himself, as he
expected" (pp.79) which also verifies his self-contempt. Out of this thought, he
eventually obtains ownership of these two mansions to enter the higher society
as the land right is the core right of the noble (Thompson, 2013).

Besides the distinctions between the subordinate class and upper class, the
capitalism also confronts a position that they do not share the comparable
social prestige with the aristocrats (Harvie et al., 2000). The patriciate in
the Industrial Revolution has a higher social status than the middle class with
extensive material resources which fabricates tension and division of these two
subgroups (Harvie et al., 2000). In the novel, Wuthering Height which creating
tumultuous and stormy atmosphere denotes the new bourgeoisie and Thrushcross
Grange which constructing civilised and courteous atmosphere symbolises the
aristocrats. To display individuals' overt class contempt upon the capitalists,
regarding her own actions as wide, vulgar and coarse, Catherine attempts to
maintain her goodliness, tidiness, and manners after staying in Thrushcross
Grange. In this respect, Hindley's wife is concerned about preventing Catherine
from "grow[ing] wild again here" (pp.78), suggesting the scorn towards the
middle class lifestyle as well. Equally, Catherine, with the eternal-rocks-like
love to Heathcliff, eventually chooses to get married to Linton since she
considers that "it would degrade me[herself] to marry Heathcliff" (pp.102). This
fear of " degradation" demonstrates in that English people merely interacted
with others to preclude encountering the lower class individuals (Thompson,
2013).

Furthermore, in Heathcliff's revenge, he intentionally compels junior Catherine
to get married to junior Linton to facilitate Linton's loss of peerage and
nobility, as a measure of realising equality. Additionally, in the ending of
this novel, it depicts the marriage of two middle class people and the perdition
of the noble class. Although the noblemen have maintained their social positions
for a long time and there is no real defeat of them, the trend of the
capitalists gaining more social power is well described in the novel.

However, there is also deficient portrait of core elements of Industrial
Revolution. In Wuthering Heights, no trace of professional manager class which
grown strikingly in that period has been declared (Harvie et al., 2000). The
individuals in this class, because of their uncertainty about their social
position, attempt to assist the noble and the upper-middle-class people acquire
power for the acknowledgement and social status (Silver, 2013). In addition,
Brontë, with an excessive concentration on only these two families, neglected
almost all the other social classes and communities. In this regard, the working
class organised by the trade union is an assignable social community which is
predicted to revolt for their human rights (Harvie et al., 2000). Unfortunately,
this class and even their mechanised mode of production have not been mentioned
throughout the novel. The only manufacturing process portrait in the novel is
agriculture implied by the Grange and countryside. In terms of the approaches of
accumulating capital fund, the novel totally conceals the detailed process but
only announces that people "didn't know how to gained his money" (pp.111).

**Political Context**

In the early stage of Industrial Revolution, due to the maldistribution of
political power, the capitalistic class cannot attain enough or adequate
interest which guides them to promote the reconstructing representation and
franchise in Parliament (Stearns, 2012). Symbolised by the majority of upper
class characters in the novel, the British royal especially Victoria vigorously
protected their prerogatives which shows an uncompromising conservative thought
(Williams, 2001). Some of the bourgeoisie, whereas, hold a more open and liberal
political philosophy which also affect numerous noble people in Tory Party
(Silver, 2013). In the novel, with nearly all the characters distaining
Heathcliff, Mr. Earnshaw embodying the capitalists likes him which represents
the new democratic thought. However, it appears that Wuthering Heights is not
consistently accordant with the historical setting in Industrial Revolution. For
instance, the ending of the novel anticipates the successful uprising against
the aristocrats, but the reality is that the dominating department is primarily
occupied by the patriciate throughout the Victorian period (Silver, 2013).

**Religious Alteration**

The advancement of industrialisation requires the development of science and
manufacturing technology which conflicts the spread of religious beliefs (Jacob,
1997). In this regard, universally acknowledged after the Industrial Revolution,
the Churches' voluntarily providing an elementary educational construction is
unsatisfactory in an industrialised country (West, 1976). Similarly, the
Benthamite and atheistic tide in an early stage, which was refuted by the
intellectual and conservative appeal to Anglican convention, emerges from the
capitalism (Williams, 2001). The Kirk epitomising the religion in the novel
experiences a process from prosperity to the situation that "decay had made
progress" (pp.312). Likewise, the status decline of church contributes to the
abatement of worshipers and missionaries described by the narrator. Furthermore,
due to the conflicts of asceticism and the boom of consumerism, "no clergyman
will undertake the duties of pastor" (pp.54) because of the low income level.
Additionally, that Heathcliff "bribes the sexton" (pp.271) can also represent
the religion's surrender to the capitalism.

There is also an indication of the aristocrats' giving up their Anglicanism
conventions: "The place of Catherine's interment, to the surprise of the
villagers, was neither in the chapel under the carved monument of the Linton's,
nor yet by the tombs of her own relations, outside" (pp.176). Before Industrial
Revolution, there are not many nonconformists in the peerage, while this group
advanced rapidly and even control extensive regions like Westminster (Stearns,
2012). In this respect, Brontë perhaps fails to depict the overall perspective
of the religious transformation in the Industrial Revolution period. For
example, the middle classes are active protestants and considerable
manufacturers are nonconformists which have not presented in the novel (Stearns,
2012).

**Conclusion**

This essay has investigated the relation between Wuthering Heights, published in
the Industrial Revolution period, and the contemporary social context. The
social division, containing firstly the tension between the pauper and the
higher class and secondly the inequality between the bourgeois and the
aristocrats, was analysed via comparatively comprehensive evidence in the novel.
Furthermore, the political circumstance which reforms to a large extent has been
enumerated to match the description in Wuthering Heights. Finally, the religious
change in that time denoting by the church in the novel has been discussed. In
all respects, Brontë seems to convey the similar social ideology and complete
picture of Industrial Revolution. Nevertheless, this essay also raised some
imperfect sections in which the social reality is not fully composed. Due to the
complicity of the social, political, and religious conditions in Industrial
Revolution, this essay may have limitations on draw analogies between the novel
and the history. Therefore, a more reliable, valid, and inclusive examination is
required in the study of Wuthering Heights.

**Reference List**

>   Brontë, E. (2007) *Wuthering heights.* Broadview Press.

>   Harvie, C., Matthew, C. and Matthew, H. C. G. (2000) *Nineteenth-century
>   Britain: a very short introduction.* Oxford Paperbacks.

>   Jacob, M. C. (1997) 'Scientific culture and the making of the industrial
>   West'.

>   Kettle, A. (2016) *An introduction to the English novel.* Routledge.

>   Schieffelin, B. B., Woolard, K. A. and Kroskrity, P. V. (1998) *Language
>   ideologies: Practice and theory.* Oxford University Press.

>   Silver, H. (2013) *A social history of education in England.* Routledge.

>   Stearns, P. N. (2012) *The industrial revolution in world history.* Westview
>   press.

>   Thompson, F. M. L. (2013) *English landed society in the nineteenth
>   century.* Routledge.

>   West, E. G. (1976) 'Education and the industrial revolution'.

>   Williams, R. (2001) *The long revolution.* Broadview Press.
