---
layout: post
title: "Culture-general Model Also Requires Dynamicity"
date: 2020-06-17
tag: short essay
---

### Introduction

After reviewing and criticising the previous investigations on politeness
theory, the selected paper (Long, 2016) argued for a social cognitive model
which integrates the underlying cognitive mechanism to account for politeness
research. The contributions of this model included that (1) it reiterated the
importance of second order theoretical conceptualisations, compared with its
first order counterparts centring around interlocuters’ interpretation of the
situations; (2) it discussed the difference between culture-general and
culture-specific second order constructs, and developed a new model based on the
former one; (3) it integrated previous culture-general elements (e.g. normative
predictability) and addressed possible invalid content of the earlier arguments
(e.g. to use culture-general model to account for culture-specific phenomena);
(4) the proposed model examined the negotiation of role-relation in relational
works in particular, but not the universal cognitive mechanism underlying all
human behaviours; (5) it incorporates two dimensions of the processing
mechanisms of relational works, that is, cognitive and affective salience; (6)
it simultaneously argued for correlative salience (within interlocutor
expectations or normatively predictable) and contrastive salience (outside of
interlocutor expectations or less normatively predictable), leading to its
capacity to account for both volitional (strategic) and discernment (deference)
forms.

As a critical review, the scope of the present essay will be the evaluation and
improvement of the model proposed by Long (2016), from the perspective of the
validity of cognitive salience, the cognitive-affective tie, and the speculation
on the model of single factor cognitive mechanism. Firstly, the current review
will argue against the simple decision process between correlative and
contrastive salience, with evidence of the evolving concept of expectations and
multiple expectations (e.g. alignment) in the organisational setting. Secondly,
the cognitive-affective tie proposed in the model will be examined from the
perspective of the affectively unneutral nature of expectations, with reference
to reasonable hostility and other relevant phenomena. Thirdly, after discussing
the validity of the proposed model, the essay will examine the basic principles
implied by the model, they are, the single cognitive processing mechanism of
relational work (salience) and the mutual-interest cooperative assumption of
communication.

### Analysis

*Dynamic Nature of Expectations*

Long (2016) formulated his model based on two lines of cognitive salience,
operationalised to be ‘inside expectation’ and ‘outside expectation’. If a
certain behaviour is identified to be correlative salience, this normatively
predictable act indexes a role-relation with an affirmation to interlocutor
expectation. In contrast, the behaviour against expectations which is less
normatively predictable falls within the scope of contrastive salience. Being
independent of and compatible with the culture-specific model(s), this social
cognitive model is plausible because it can set the ground for more situational
interpretations and allows the possibilities of situated norms (Tracy, 2008) at
the culture-specific level. Additionally, being interactional and evolving as
elaborated by the interactional model and acquisition of apology-gratitude
expressions (Long, 2016, pp. 19 and 21, respectively), it seems to verify the
dynamic nature of the model.

However, at the culture-general level, assuming the concept of expectation to be
unidimensional, the model illustrated a decision process based on ‘within’ or
‘outside of’ one and only one situational norm or expectation. It is unable to
explain the multifaceted nature of expectation, such as multiple expectations
and evolving expectations (see below for the difference between ‘evolving
expectations’ and ‘evolving model of expectations’) which will be discussed in
this section.

The multifaceted nature of expectation invalidates the over-simplified model
covering two distinctive consequences of cognitive salience. In the
subdiscipline of interpersonal communication in the organisational setting, the
‘alignment’ of individuals’ role to institutional role is complexed in dyadic
negotiation (Koester, 2006, p. 161). Different from Long’s (2016) model arguing
for only four possibilities in one sequence of relational work (p. 19), if
considering one more role-relation expectation to each side, as shown in Figure
1, the condition will be much more complicated. It should be noticed that every
more dimension of expectations or new role-relation will diversify the model
exponentially.

![](/8f54d1ec37acf7cc21b6b165044cb7c3.png)

Figure 1: The more complicated interaction model of relational work

In this complicated model, one behaviour may simultaneously fall within and
outside of the expectation of certain side (e.g. section 10). Referring to the
transcript in assignment 1 (see Appendix), if using Long’s (2016) model, Mona’s
change from formal communication style to comparatively informal one might be
because she ‘accept’ the newly indexed role-relation after an unexpected (hence
contrastive) exchange. However, if allowing Mona to harbour multiple
expectations, she may concurrently expect a formal meeting aligning to the
organisation and an informal one by herself. The ultimate choice to follow which
line is based on much more complicated cognitive mechanisms, perhaps including
comparing and compromising.

Furthermore, this model as well as Long’s (2016) model cannot provide
explanations for evolving expectation. Different from an ‘evolving model of
expectations’ which highlight the changing nature of expectations (cf. Arundale,
2009), ‘evolving expectation’ indicates that the content of expectation may
involve how the situation and the role-relation will change. Considering the
acquisition of apology-gratitude expressions mentioned in the selected paper,
Long (2016) proposed an evolving model of expectations and illustrated one
particular development of role-relation assumption. However, this model
arbitrarily claimed that the one-side shift of role-relation must be recognised
as contrastive salience, neglecting the possibility that this shift *per se* may
be expected or anticipated. As a partial revision, Figure 2 incorporates the
evolving expectation into the original model.

![](/eea1b92f976e0b0c2f133d74768a174c.png)

Figure 2: Revised model for acquisition of apology-gratitude expressions
(partial)

It could be observed that in stage 1 two expectations exist at the same time,
normative expectation (left) and evolving expectation (right) alike.
Specifically, apart from the expectation of normative child/adult role-relation,
the adult may also expect or anticipate a change of this norm to be adult/adult.
If it is valid, the instances in stage 2 provided by Long (2016) may be
concurrently correlative and contrastive to each of the two expectations of the
adult. For example, if the child adopts a new expression (i.e. apology), it is
salient contrastively to the normative linguistic representation and also
correlatively to the anticipated change of role-relation expression. This
phenomenon further rejects and complicates Long’s (2016) binary model on
cognitive salience, which leads to the discussion at the affective level.

*Affectively Unneutral Nature of Expectations*

This section aims at examining the cognitive-affective tie proposed in Long’s
(2016) model. Based on the binary model of cognitive salience, three
possibilities of affective salience were identified. It is assumed that, if the
behaviour is correlatively salient, it may evoke a positive affective response,
although this line of behaviours is typically unmarked without conscious
evaluation. On the contrary, if contrastive salience emerges, the affective
response of individual may be negative if the unexpected newly indexed
role-relation was rejected, otherwise positive if accepted.

Before discussing the topic mentioned in the title of this subsection, it should
be noticed that the argument in Section 2.1 has already discredited some aspects
of the affective elements in the model. For instance, if we allow the existence
of multiple expectations and evolving expectations, the potential positive and
negative affective responses may develop at the same time. If rejected one newly
indexed role-relation but accepted the other, how the affect will be in the end
falls outside the capacity of Long’s (2016) model.

Except for the analysis in the earlier section, the present section will
concentrate on the affective prosody carried by individuals’ expectation, which
was neglected by Long (2016). Although in the following analysis the present
essay may sometimes seem to presuppose the validity of the binary model and
provide discussions within the binary paradigm, the new arguments below are not
independent of but complementing to the previous ones, which should be
understood in a holistic manner.

In Long’s (2016) model, the affective salience is totally from the cognitive
salience, which seems to be affectively neutral. However, the norm or
expectation *per se* may harbour certain emotional prosody, either positive or
negative. Taking U.S school board meetings as an example, Tracy (2008, p. 170)
argued that the ‘emotionally marked criticism of the past and future actions of
public persons’ or ‘reasonable hostility’ could also be the situated norm
compared with the polite or civil norms. If in this situation the hostility can
be identified as a norm which entails negative affect, the so-called correlative
salience with the behaviour inside expectation may not essentially bring about
positive affect. Similarly, contrastive salience with a rejection of the newly
indexed role-relation may not necessarily lead to negative affective responses,
possibly derived from the positive prosody of the less normatively predictable
expression such as an impromptu marriage proposal.

Also, in Long’s (2016) model, a reported contribution is its ability to explain
discernment forms, which were categorised to be unmarked and correlatively
salient. Based on his argument, it seems that the unmarked behaviours (i.e.
discernment forms) were claimed to potentially be ‘the target of a conscious
affective evaluation’ (Long, 2016, p. 17) although less likely to be. Apart from
confirming this affective response with the participants in a *post-hoc* first
order manner (cf. Long, 2016, p. 12), little suggestions were provided to
account for how the unmarked behaviour can be consciously evaluated at an
affective level. From the perspective of affectively unneutral expectations, it
is argued that the unmarked cognitive salience (correlative) does not
necessarily entail unmarked affective salience. If honorifics at a
culture-specific level can be recognised to be positively indexed, the passive
or normative usage of it (cognitively unmarked) can generate positive affective
evaluations (affectively marked), and vice versa. The incorporation of this
consideration may help specify and enhance the accountability of Long’s (2016)
model, but questions it in more aspects.

The rift between cognitive and affective unmarkedness discussed above also
exists when negotiating newly indexed role-relations. In the model being
reviewed, the acceptance and rejection of a new role-relation implied by
unexpected behaviours will lead to positive and negative affect, respectively.
Again, this model presupposes the affectively neutral nature of ‘acceptance’ and
‘rejection’, further claiming the close tie between this binary cognitive
decision and affective salience. However, scholars should consider how and why
the individuals will accept or reject a newly indexed role-relation, and whether
this process is affectively unneutral.

For instance, the comparison of multiple affectively indexed expectations may
happen in this decision process. With reference to the acquisition of
apology-gratitude expressions presented in Figure 2, whether the adult will
accept the new adult/adult role-relation is based on his/her comparison,
evaluation, and even compromise of expectations made during the communication.
Within this complicated process, the outcome of the affective response will be
significantly influenced by how the expectations harbour affective prosody and
how these expectations reach a compromise. If the anticipated change of
role-relation to be adult/adult is endowed with anxiety, unhappiness, or the
negative feeling of ‘being out of control’, the adult will certainly not have
high level positive affective evaluation even if this new role-relation was
accepted based on a compromise of this expectation.

In addition, even if the expectation is relatively neutral at affective level,
the cognitive evaluation such as compromise *per se* may be affectively salient.
The comparison of multiple expectations may be a real struggle with negative
affect. If in the transcript of Assignment 1 Jack was hesitated between ‘staying
silent as a recruit’ and ‘contributing ideas as a meeting member’, his emotion
at this period should be judged by not only the finally expressed (or
unexpressed) role-relation he took but also the earlier process of decision
making which may inherently carry affective elements.

*Culture-general, Culture-specific, and Individual Differences*

The two subsections above discussed the validity of Long’s (2016) model by
assessing the logic and components within it, whereas this section will evaluate
the basic assumption of this social cognitive model, that is, salience. The
discussion will comprise of two main parts, including (1) the individual
differences (culture-specific or even first order) elements in the current
so-called culture-general model; and (2) other dimensions of cognitive
mechanisms in relational works.

The current culture-general model is oversimplified, possibly to be in line with
the basic cognitive schema. However, even apart from the invalidity of cognitive
salience and affective salience discussed above, the notion of salience itself
in the model may not be perfectly independent of culture-specific or even first
order elements. That is because of the very important causal relation that
normatively predictable behaviours (Terkourafi, 2005) would be recognised as
unmarked ones (correlative salience), and vice versa. The present review is not
to argue that the cognitive mechanism of ‘markedness’ is problematic, but the
interpretation of marked behaviour may be different. Invoking the definition of
‘tolerance of ambiguity’ (Budner, 1962), individuals may perceive the uncertain
or ambiguous situation as ‘desirable’, which rejects the current model. Also, if
certain culture embraces the normatively unpredictable behaviours, the
culture-general model fails to be compatible with the culture-specific one(s).

This should be considered together with the subject of communication and the
nature of culture. If we allow non-human subject such as organisation to be the
participant of communication, the individuals who have aligned themselves with
the goal of the higher order construct may not share the same cognitive
mechanism. Also, although the cultivation of culture may not influence the
cognitive mechanism of ‘markedness’ but may modify individuals’ interpretation
of the marked phenomena. This echoes the critique of the affective response of
cognitive salience. The tricky concept here is that the ‘markedness’ itself may
not be affectively neutral.

In addition, Long’s (2016) model seems to depend on only one cognitive
mechanism, which can be further elaborated. Invoking Maslow’s hierarchy (Maslow,
1950 cited in Goldwasser 2006, p. 79), participants may prioritise their basic
needs when communicating with the others. For instance, concerning the need to
be esteemed, if one perceived the context and the expression of the others to be
supportive of his/her self-esteem, a positive affective response is highly
possible regardless of whether the behaviour is normatively predictable or not.
This will be more complex as it is assumed that the organisational context will
enjoy a dissimilar list of basic needs (Goldwasser, 2006).

Also, in a similar social-cognitive model (Culpeper, 2011), the previous
Goffmanian approach with a focus on ‘quality face’ (mutual evaluation) was
criticised. It is suggested that more dimensions should be incorporated such as
identity face and physical self. The notion of intentionality was discussed as
well, to develop a more comprehensive model. For example, one can expect a
certain level of separateness or connectedness with the interlocutor, but the
impoliteness may be perceived as unintentional, which reduced its salience
compared with the intentional aggression.

These new dimensions of cognitive mechanism lead to the discussion on what can
be recognised as a culture-general model, and whether a culture-general model is
another type of culture-specific model. The first important aspect of
culture-general model, as argued by Long (2016), is its independence from
culture-specific models. If the above critiques are valid, this essay has
analysed the culture-specific elements which may exist within the cognitive
mechanism of salience. A more trustworthy causal relation should be explored
between the underlying cognitive mechanism of ‘markedness’ and the mechanism of
relational works. Apart from ‘markedness’, more cognitive mechanisms should be
involved. Additionally, following Long’s (2016) argument, it is hypothesised
that the compatibility of culture-general model to culture-specific one is of
utmost importance. If the concepts involved in the model may conflict with that
in the culture-specific models, the capacity will be significantly undermined.

### Conclusion

The present essay critically reviewed the model proposed by Long (2016), which
was reported to be a culture-general second order one. The first section
examined its validity of the concept of expectation which was closely related to
normative predictability. Two important issues were discussed, including
multiple expectations and evolving expectations. If the individuals involved in
the conversation were allowed to be diverse, the simple binary decision of
cognitive salience might be flawed. In this respect, the main question to be
addressed is the simultaneously occurred correlative and contrastive salience.

The second section discussed Long’s (2016) presupposition of the affectively
neutral nature of situated norms. The emotional prosody of a certain situation
(e.g. reasonable hostility) was evaluated to be against the simple relationship
between cognitive salience and affective salience proposed in the model being
reviewed. This argument was furthered by the discussion of the affective element
harboured by the negotiation process (i.e. acceptance and rejection) of
role-relations. A possible intermediate period before the real negotiation (e.g.
comparison and compromise) is explored, also with its probability to be
emotionally indexed. In this regard, the cognitive-affective tie promoted by
Long (2016) was argued against.

The third section, based on the former two, investigated the core component, the
cognitive mechanism of salience, implied by the model. How the individual
differences will influence the validity of this concept was first assessed. The
focus was on the hypothesised causal relation between correlative salience
(normative predictability) and unmarkedness. It pointed to the culture-specific
nature of the interpretation of less normatively predictable behaviours. Also,
the single-factor model involving only ‘salience’ as the underlying cognitive
mechanism was analysed. This leads to a brief discussion on the criteria of the
culture-general model, and its speciality compared with culture-specific ones.

Nevertheless, it should be noticed that this present review was limited in
multiple aspects. The most prevailing problem throughout the essay is the direct
use of the binary distinction of cognitive and affective salience. Although the
essay emphasised the possibility of the concurrently emerged two saliences, it
fails to argue against whether the three or more options can be identified. For
instance, the categorisation of positive and negative affective responses may be
intrinsically limited, which should be refined in future studies.

Overall, the contribution of the present review lies in its reiteration that
even culture-general model should be dynamic. This means that future models
should allow the existence of dynamic expectations (multiple and evolving).
Also, the cognitive-affective relationship should be assessed via greater
cautions. It should be noticed that this does not mean that a culture-general
model is comprehensive and cumbersome. Quite differently, it could be simple
because the ultimate aim of it is to explore whether a general process can be
identified regardless of the individual differences and cultural elements.

### Bibliography

>   Arundale, R. B. (2009). Face as emergent in interpersonal communication: An
>   alternative to Goffman. In F. Bargiela-Chiappini & M. Haugh (Eds.), *Face,
>   communication and social interaction* (pp. 33–54). London; Oakville, CT:
>   Equinox Pub.

>   Budner, S. (1962). Intolerance of ambiguity as a personality variable.
>   *Journal of Personality*, *30*(1), 29–50. doi:
>   10.1111/j.1467-6494.1962.tb02303.x

>   Culpeper, J. (2011). *Impoliteness: Using language to cause offence* (Vol.
>   28). Cambridge University Press.

>   Goldwasser, I. (2006). *Interactive Communication: A Guide to Effective
>   Communication*. Pearson Education Australia.

>   Koester, A. (2006). *Investigating workplace discourse*. London and New
>   York: Routledge.

>   Long, C. (2016). A social cognitive account of relational work. *Journal of
>   Politeness Research*, *12*(1), 1–26. doi: 10.1515/pr-2015-0025

>   Maslow, A. H. (1950). Self-actualizing people: A study of psychological
>   health. *Personality*.

>   Terkourafi, M. (2005). Beyond the micro-level in politeness research.
>   *Journal of Politeness Research*, *1*(2), 237–262. doi:
>   10.1515/jplr.2005.1.2.237

>   Tracy, K. (2008). “Reasonable hostility”: Situation-appropriate face-attack.
>   *Journal of Politeness Research*, *4*(2), 169–191. doi:
>   10.1515/JPLR.2008.009

### Appendix

[…]

Mona: Hhh... so, yeah, what what exactly what website is

gonna be enhanced by... you know what…

maybe...cooking sites, or something, but Hhh.

Jack: Hhh.

Owen: [Smacks lips] yeah.

Owen: think about selling perfume, for example.

Owen: you wanna give people a a taste of it.

Mona: oh yeah, a perfume.

Gary: flower order sites, maybe.

Gary: you know.

Owen: yeah.

Owen: [Smacks lips]... or even chocolate...Gary or kind of stuff you would

like to Hhh wrap up and send somebody.

Mona: yeah.

Mona: hm.

Owen: so, we.

Gary: who needs who needs to buy air fresheners, right?

Gary: just log onto a website, and [laughs].

Mona: oh, yes, air fresheners.

Owen: [Laughs] that is true.

Mona: anything with a nice scent.

Owen: if you're online forever, you don't need this to buy you

don't... need to buy it, you just [laughs].

Gary: yep.

Owen: alright…let's start

Mona: oh that is…yeah

Owen: [Smacks lips] so what about if we...if one of us is

using ismell?

Mona: how do you mean?

Mona: Hhh.

Owen: I mean, [Smacks lips] we...make the device... neon blue,

so that somebody wearing it clearly has an ismell.

Owen: [Smacks lips] and then, whenever he or she comes around,

then people Hhh are really attracted to, and they like the

smell, or.

Jack: [Laughs].

Mona: uh huh.

Mona: hm.

Jack: I think the challenge is.

Gary: I suppose you could also use it to repel people you didn't want to,

right?

Gary: [Laughs].

Mona: yeah, you could go to the

rubbish collectors' website.

Gary: [Laughs] Hhh.

Owen: that \*would\* be good [laughs].

Mona: yeah, right.

Mona: you know Hhh I am sure there is Hhh plenty of foul smells \*there\*.

Mona: the farm website, you know.

Mona: that's where the attractions are.

Gary: [Laughs]

Owen: well, there \*is\* something here--

Mona: multiple uses.

Owen: the product is \*not:\* meant for all websites.

as you know…Gary.

Mona: yeah, yeah.

Mona: Hhh.

Gary: well as you know…if people wanted the [Smacks lips] wanted

you to visit their website they

wouldn't put... scent commands on the farm website

right?

Gary: [Laughs]

Owen: well isn't that obvious?

Mona: one would hope.

Mona: [Laughs] Hhh.

Owen: hmm.

Owen: one would hope.

Mona: yeah, I don't know.

Mona: so, what what are the advertisements...

aimed at the typical user like?

Mona: you know.

Mona: Hhh it is usually, like Hhh well Hhh.

Owen: well, the one thing is.

Mona: I mean the the they're very fickle, right?

Mona: I mean, it is like, you know, they Hhh look at all

this great new stuff, blah, blah, you know.

Jack: there is often a cute slogan.

Mona: yeah.

Jack: as with Apple products.

Mona: what do you want to smell today?

Mona: Hhh you know just.

Jack: [Laughs].

Owen: [Laughs, smacks lips] why don't we Hhh do you know do

you know the old German advertisement...you have

Owen: this star saying in German [Smacks lips] I'm big and I use it.

Owen: [Laughs] Hhh and [Smacks lips] why don't we reuse that?

Owen: ... not exactly that, but something like that.

Owen: what do you think?

Mona: oh…the guy says…\*i\* smell.

Gary: [Laughs].

Owen: \*i\* smell. [laughs]

Jack: [Laughs].

Mona: [Laughs] Hhh you got it .

Owen: well, it could--

Mona: that is also ambiguous, right?

Mona: I mean.

Mona: you can smell, too.

Mona: Hhh for only twenty nine ninety five.

Mona: Hhh.

Owen: well, there might be two [laughs] there might be two groups

of customers.

Owen: one one group is the one using it for advertising their own

their own stuff, and the other one is using is for Hhh

getting...better feeling from the their own website, [laughs] or whatever.

Mona: yeah.

Mona: so your customers can see how you smell, huh?

Owen: [laughs] no, they can smell how you smell.

Mona: yeah, right.

Mona: so yeah then we could we could have two or more ads

for different end users likely to visit these different sites

Mona: so.

Gary: right, so we're not targeting the companies who have to…but their
customers.

Owen: yeah, but if you have a home homepage for example, you might

even Hhh [smacks lips] put a smell on your homepage.

Mona: yeah.

Owen: the hompage is where the customers go…no?

Gary: right.

Gary: but this isn't the device that allows you to do this…isn't what

allows you to put the smell in there, right?

Gary: this is what.

Owen: is there a difference?

Owen: the customer goes to a site \*to\* get a smell.

Mona: so…are we really thinking more about the companies or their customers?

you know,

Gary: right.

Owen: right…so the customer just goes to the site and gets the smell on the
device…

Owen: [Looks at Mona] right?

[…]

Mona: gamers…shoppers. Hhh can you target both of these people

with the same ad, or no?

Mona: Hhh I would say no.

Owen: think so.

Jack: one might be predominantly women, and the other might be

predominantly male.

Mona: right.

Owen: i know this may sound funny

but internet shopping is mostly done by women

Owen: isn't it?

Jack: no, I'm not sure.

Mona: well--

Jack: I just assume so, because [laughs].

Gary: shopping for perfume probably is.

Mona: well.

Gary: maybe not.

Mona: what if it is in a gamers' magazine?

Owen: but this only goes for the gamers, not for the shoppers.

Mona: yeah.

Mona: right, right.

Mona: so, you maybe you have two.

Mona: Hhh [Smacks lips] 'cause, I think it is gonna be tough to…

to get the point across to both of these people with one ad, I think.

Mona: Hhh you know?

Jack: unless you do something that is really simple.

Jack: Hhh it seems like, the Hhh well, the obvious thing

to do, which isn't necessarily right, but Hhh because it is,

like, neon blue and it has the little eye, just like the mac book,

it seems like it would be in the same kind of...

marketing realm as like Hhh like the mac book commercials

that are all like blank white behind them, and they're really simple

Hhh and they have really short slogans.

Jack: Hhh...but, I don't know.

Jack: I don't know if I'm voting for that way.

Jack: [Laughs].

Gary: [Clears throat]

Owen: so, you are more thinking about something which is highly

specialised to \*each\* group you think there will be more

people buying in it?

Gary: yeah.

Gary: kind of obvious, right?

Mona: so you would need two ads…not one.

Mona: I mean \*we\* identified two groups

really strongly

Mona: right?

Owen: hmm right.

Jack: well, there might be people who want it, though we wouldn't even

realise, or maybe they don't even realise they want it yet.

Jack: [laughs].

Mona: right.

Mona: right.

Owen: yeah, I think I think what... with such

a new device, or let us assume that it is a really new device, and

nobody ever saw and had this ismell, then we maybe we need to advertise

it through some kind of broader Hhh

[Smacks lips] group, because people have to find out that they really need it.

Mona: smell what you've been missing?

Mona: yeah, I don't know.

Owen: hm?

Mona: smell what you've been missing.

Owen: [laughs].

Mona: your Internet experience has not been complete.

Owen: so, what about a commercial, [Smacks lips] like, before and

after?

Mona: so, what is the what are the before and after conditions? and for which
ad?

Owen: well, then, the the the difficult thing is that we

don't have such kind of thing, so that we can't show the

people how it is before and after.

Owen: Hhh so even we even .

Gary: you would have to do something like you would have to

do something like... Hhh well, you could use it...

something like with color and black and white, so the commercial

could, you know, start out with black and white, and Hhh

before they have ismell, and then they come back and Hhh bring home

the ismell, or whatever.

Gary: or or something.

Mona: right.

Owen: but that doesn't give you the feeling Gary…yeah?

Gary: well, no.

Gary: and then and then the first thing that [Smacks lips] so

they open the box, and the only thing… it is still black and

white, but the ismell is blue.

Owen: mhm.

Gary: and then they connect the device, and go to a new site, and the whole

commercial becomes color.

Owen: colorful?

Mona: yeah, so now the sensory experience is more complete, right?

Mona: it is.

Gary: right.

Owen: mhm.

Gary: [Smacks lips] I mean, in the ad, there is no way to convey smell,

exactly.

Gary: so I mean it is the kind of [smacks lips] Hhh use color

to convey smell, right?

Gary: [Laughs].

Mona: right.

Owen: so, the thing is, can can we assume here [swallow] that we

will have such a device Hhh so that oh, no, okay.

Owen: oh, forget about.

Owen: [Smacks lips] or or we can…would we…if we put

it into a magazine, we can have this Hhh surface to scratch on

so that they... smell something.

Mona: so, you could have a similar thing... in a magazine that is also

... black and white, with no smell, color with smell.

Gary: hmm.

Owen: mm hmm.

Mona: like a two page ad, or something.\~

Gary: right.

Mona: we could even go further [Smacks lips] and give the black and white

you know [Smacks lips] have him sitting in front of a mac, or something.

Owen: mhm.

Mona: an old mac, even better.

Owen: uh huh.

Owen: yeah.

Mona: right, I mean the whole thing.

Mona: [Smacks lips] if we could

Owen: what about somebody playing Pac Man on an Apple.

Owen: what was that called [smacks lips] oh.

Mona: so, you have somebody sitting in front of this antiquated piece

of equipment.

Gary: right.

Mona: obviously bored with life.

Gary: [Smacks lips] yep.

Owen: mhm.

Mona: 'cause his or her Internet experiences is...woefully incomplete.

Mona: and then, all of a sudden, you know Hhh [Smacks lips] there is

somebody with a a nice new machine.

Mona: color.

Mona: ...smell.

Owen: or we do it like an evolution.

Owen: first we have this Pac Man on the Apple, and then we
